---
layout: post
title: "Ruby vs Objective-C"
tags:
- ruby
- objective c
- programming
- iOS
---

As a follow-up to yesterday’s post I wanted to give a brief rundown of the similarities and differences I’ve found between Objective-C and Ruby so far. The material is vast enough to be put in a book or at least a paper akin to [From C++ to Objective-C](http://chachatelier.fr/programmation/fichiers/cpp-objc-en.pdf) – which is wonderful by the way. That paper helped me grow leaps and bounds when I first started iOS from my Academic C++ background.

Historically both Obj-C and Ruby share some common ground. While their syntax can be drastically different, Ruby is written in C and Obj-C is a strict superset of C. They both add features from Smalltalk.  While Ruby diverged and took several nuances from Perl, Obj-C took the messaging pattern of Smalltalk.

###Everything’s an object

Probably the biggest similarity is that they are both at their core true object oriented languages. Everything is an object and is derived from other objects. In Obj-C all objects are rooted in NSObject while in Ruby everything derives from the BasicObject. This makes Inheritance and Polymorphism very similar in both languages.

They both only allow for single inheritance while you can add methods with the delegate pattern in Obj-C and mixins in Ruby.

###Attributes and Properties

One of my favorite features in Obj-C has always been declaring properties – and therefore creating setters/getters automagically. I remember the old days in C++ creating these by hand with emacs (it took forever!). Ruby replicates this through attr_accessible.  Both languages use the keyword self inside the class but Ruby will create instance variables for you using the @example. This can be done in Obj-C by calling @synthesize example = _example (_ being the go-to instance variable naming methodology in Obj-C and @ being the go-to in Ruby).

###Memory Management

In Obj-C we now use Automatic Reference Counting, which is NOT garbage collection. There are still several facets of memory management that have to be taken into account. This makes sense because Obj-C is a superset of C where you obviously are required to keep track of all facets of memory.  I’ve droned on about Obj-C memory management and ARC [before]( http://wmtylerdavis.com/iOS-delegate-pattern/). Ruby utilizes garbage collection. There is barely any need to keep track of memory (barely).

The one aspect they share is that there is no real concept of the Stack in either language. Everything is allocated on the heap with the exception of primitives but it is usually best to use objects such as NSNumber.

###Typing

Ruby is duck typed. Obj-C is strongly typed but makes use of type id which will allow for weak typing. Both are dynamically typed in the sense that all the checks happen at runtime.  Honestly I love both for what they are. I make use of id rarely when I’m coding Obj-C.