---
layout: post
title: "Organic"
tags: 
- writing
- writer
- organic
- process
---

Not really talking organic food, but maybe that gets me a few extra page views? Today I’m talking writing process and why I sorta kinda love/hate it. 

## Many False Starts

I’ve wanted to write for several years. I’ve had many ideas for novels. I have hundreds of pages of false starts (mostly 20 or so pages to each idea). After taking a step back for a few years to focus on transitioning my career, I’ve had the opportunity to evaluate where for so long I’ve went wrong.

## Writing is a Process

Writing is organic. You have to find your own way, to figure out what works and what doesn’t, to figure out how one goes from page one to finished product. No two authors are the same. There are millions of ways to get to the finished product.

I tried for years to mimic others processes. I read books about writing. I took all of [Chuck Palahniuk’s](http://chuckpalahniuk.net/features/13-writing-tips), [Stephen King’s](http://www.amazon.com/On-Writing-Anniversary-Edition-Memoir/dp/1439156816), and [Ray Bradbury’s](http://www.amazon.com/Zen-Art-Writing-Releasing-Creative/dp/0553296345/ref=sr_1_2?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1456242790&sr=1-2&keywords=ray+bradbury+on+writing) processes to heart, trying each. Nothing seemed to work for me. I focused on reading and rereading my finished pages. Polishing them, rewriting them, never really focusing on where the story was going and how it would end.

## Secrets

So this is something I’ve heard recently, I believe from [Neil Gaiman](https://twitter.com/neilhimself), that I’ve taken to heart. I don’t tell anyone what I’m writing. This is something I used to do quite often, but what happens here is then the need to write it down is diminished. I’ve told the story, however briefly to someone, and the burning desire to get it out is lost. It’s barely a flicker. 

## My Process

This too I took from Gaiman. It’s not that I’m mimicking him or his process, not really, but I saw the value in it for me. When I write on the computer there’s a delete button. There’s a page I can edit and change. That doesn’t help me finish the book. It helps me make 8 drafts of Chapter 1. I’m now at the midpoint of my story in a journal that is almost filled. I’ve got a second journal ready for second half. 

Throughout I’ve changed directions, scribbling in the margins where things need to be added or changed. I’ve changed character names. I’ve even changed the tense of the story from past to present to past. Imagine had I done that while typing it, I would have gone back however many pages and labored over each page, changing each verbs tense. 

Halfway there never felt so good. 
