---
layout: post
title: "Muscle Up"
tags: 
- muscle up
- crossfit
- weightlifting
- 16.3
---

I interrupt my regular posts about writing stuff to talk about one of my other passions... Crossfit!

So even though I've been doing Crossfit off and on for several years (mostly at home or in the gym at the Pentagon when I was stationed there), I had never did the Crossfit Open until this year. Figuring I'd mostly do scaled workouts my only goal was to do one workout RX - prescribed. 

I met that goal with 16.2. Even though I didn't do the double unders in a fast enough fashion to get through all the squat cleans and compete more than one round. You can see my pathetic scores [here](http://games.crossfit.com/athlete/657403).

Thursday night came and the announcement included the dreaded muscle up. Okay, another scaled workout, I thought. Friday morning came and I attempted a couple of bar muscle ups to no avail. I completed the workout scaled and was happy. Then Monday morning before Crossfit a group of us were hanging out, stretching, and talking. I thought I'd just play around with another attempt, knowing I didn't want to attempt 16.3 again. 

It just happened. I think I was even chatting in the middle of it as I dangled from the bar. It was ugly, chicken winged because of my right shoulder's previous injury and my lack of technique, but it happened. It happened a couple more times after that. Then we did a WOD, my shoulders were smoked, and I did another attempt for the [camera](https://www.instagram.com/p/BC7v9UlDerU/). 
